== TEDxStartSomething

== Setting up Continuous Integration (CI)

=== Hardware (AWS EC2)

1. Create a security group with http, https, ssh, and custom TCP on port 8080.
2. Create an Ubuntu AMI with hardware capacity of t2.medium.
3. Attach the created security group to the Ubuntu AMI.

=== Setup CI

==== Install Jenkins

1. sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jdk
2. sudo apt-get install git
3. wget -q -O - https://jenkins-ci.org/debian/jenkins-ci.org.key | sudo apt-key add -
4. sudo sh -c 'echo deb http://pkg.jenkins-ci.org/debian binary/ > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list'
5. sudo apt-get update
6. sudo apt-get install jenkins
7. sudo apt-get install phantomjs

==== Configure Jenkins

1. Install Jenkins plugins
	* github (also installs git, which is what is really wanted)
	* green balls
	* build pipeline
2. Change time zone.

==== Configure Build

1. Poll SCM: */3 * * * *, rather than use Github hooks, which is also good.
2. Build, Execute Shell:
	<tt>
		#!/bin/bash -xl
		\curl -sSL get.rvm.io | bash -s stable –ruby=1.9.3 source /var/lib/jenkins/.rvm/scripts/rvm
		source /var/lib/jenkins/.rvm/scripts/rvm
		rvm use gemset actionman
		bundle install
		export DB_USERNAME=actionman
		export DB_PASSWORD=actionman_test
		RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rake
	</tt>

#!/bin/bash -xl
\curl -sSL get.rvm.io | bash -s stable –ruby=1.9.3 source /var/lib/jenkins/.rvm/scripts/rvm
source /var/lib/jenkins/.rvm/scripts/rvm
rvm use gemset actionman
bundle install
export DB_USERNAME=actionman
export DB_PASSWORD=actionman_test
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rake
=== Install Dependencies

1. Install db/mysql: sudo apt-get install mysql-server mysql-client libmysqlclient-dev.
2. Install libxml2: sudo apt-get install libxslt-dev libxml2-dev.
3. Install qt WebKit: sudo apt-get install libqtwebkit-dev.

== Setting Up Local Development Environment

1. git clone git@github.com:DiUS/TEDxStartSomething.
2. bundle install.
3. rake db:setup.


== Deploy from local machine

$ DEPLOY_KEY=<path_to_deployer_pem> AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<key> AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<secret> bin/cap canary deploy

== Local Development

=== Install & run elasticsearch

==== Install

wget http://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.20.5.tar.gz
tar -xvzf elasticsearch-0.20.5.tar.gz

IMPORTANT:
edit elasticsearch-0.20.5/config/elasticsearch.yml to change the cluster.name to a unique name!
(otherwise it'll form a cluster between the development machines)

==== Run

cd elasticsearch-0.20.5
bin/elasticsearch -f 

==== Re-seeding data

To re-seed and re-index:

rake db:seed search:import

Just re-indexing:

rake search:import

NOTE: you may see "Too amny open files" in the elasticsearch logs. This causes indexing to fail sometimes. 

Solution for this problem can be found here:

http://www.elasticsearch.org/tutorials/2011/04/06/too-many-open-files.html

== Performance testing with httperf

=== Setup

Note: To reduce latency deviation I would installing the httperf and running the test from the EC2 instance (i.e. QA),
 but not from the production machine itself as the test take a lot of resources.

Clone the httperf that supports big sessions:

git clone git://github.com/Gregg/httperf_big_cookies.git

Build and install httperf:

sudo mv httperf_big_cookies /usr/local/lib
cd /usr/local/lib/httperf_big_cookies
./configure
make
sudo make install

Verify that httperf has installed correctly:

httpferf -h

=== Running the test

Prepare the path_sequence.txt.  The file basically describes the sequence for requests

httperf --wsesslog=40,2,path_sequence.txt --rate=1 --timeout=5 --session-cookie --server=production.actionman.zerobot.io --port=80

==== Explanation

The above command will be means the following:

40 session, each starts withing 1 second of each other firing events in path_sequence.txt every two seconds.

==== Important Metrics

Request rate: 13.3 req/s (75.4 ms/req)
Reply rate [replies/s]: min 1.4 avg 13.6 max 16.8 stddev 4.3 (41 samples)

Thie basically means that fore every 13.3 req on everage 13.6 req came back per second (the second number is bigger in this
case due to rump up).  Watch the standard deviation stays relatively low.

Reply time [ms]: response 297.6 transfer 173.5
Make sure this stays with acceptable rate (< 500ms??)

It is also good to personally play with the app while the test is executing.

=== Future Improvements

It would be good to investigate how to pass JSON to POST requests in path_sequence.txt (i.e. for posting a reaction)

